**Factory method** is a creational design pattern which solves the problem of creating product objects without specifying their concrete classes. It deﬁnes an interface for creating an object, but lets subclasses decide which class to instantiate. Factory Method lets a class defer instantiation to subclasses.

The Factory Method Pattern is useful if you’ve only got one concrete creator because you are decoupling the implementation of the product from its use. If you add additional products or change a product’s implementation, it will not affect your Creator (because the Creator is not tightly coupled to any ConcreteProduct).

Learnings:
- **Dependecy Inversion Principle**: Depend upon abstractions. Do not depend upon concrete classes. Object creation does not depend on multiple product classes but one single factory method that can run some computation to find the correct product.

Bullet points:
- All factories encapsulate object creation.
- Simple factory pattern, while not a design pattern is a simple way to decouple your client code from concrete class.
- Factory method relies on inheritance. Object creation is delegated to subclasses which implement the factory method to create objects.
- Abstract Factory method relies on object composition. Object creation is done in methods exposed by factory interface.
- All factory patterns promote loose coupling by reducing the dependency of your application on concrete classes.
- The intent of Factory Method is to allow a class to defer instantiation to its subclasses.
- The intent of Abstract Factory is to create families of related objects without having to depend on their concrete classes.
- The Dependency Inversion Principle guides us to avoid dependencies on concrete types and to strive for abstractions.
- Factories are a powerful technique for coding to abstractions, not concrete classes.

Factory method:

```ts

// Factory Method
abstract class Creator {
    protected abstract factoryMethod(): Product;

    public someOperation() {
        const product = this.factoryMethod();
        console.log(`Result of product operation: ${product.operation()}`);
    }
}

class ConcreteCreator1 extends Creator {
    public factoryMethod(): Product {
        return new ConcreteProduct1();
    }
}

class ConcreteCreator2 extends Creator {
    public factoryMethod(): Product {
        return new ConcreteProduct2();
    }
}

// Abstract Factory Method
interface Product {
    operation(): string;
}

class ConcreteProduct1 implements Product {
    public operation(): string {
        return '{Result of the ConcreteProduct1}';
    }
}

class ConcreteProduct2 implements Product {
    public operation(): string {
        return '{Result of the ConcreteProduct2}';
    }
}

console.log('App: Launched with the ConcreteCreator1.');
new ConcreteCreator1().someOperation();
console.log('');

console.log('App: Launched with the ConcreteCreator2.');
new ConcreteCreator2().someOperation();
```