**Singleton** is a creational design pattern, which ensures that only one object of its kind exists and provides a single point of access to it for any other code.

Singleton has almost the same pros and cons as global variables. Although they’re super-handy, they break the modularity of your code.

You can’t just use a class that depends on a Singleton in some other context, without carrying over the Singleton to the other context. Most of the time, this limitation comes up during the creation of unit tests.

 Bullet points:
 - The Singleton Pattern ensures you have at most one instance of a class in your application.
 - The Singleton Pattern also provides a global access point to that instance.
 - Java’s implementation of the Singleton Pattern makes use of a private constructor, a static method combined with a static variable.
 - Examine your performance and resource constraints and carefully choose an appropriate Singleton implementation for multi threaded applications (and we should consider all applications multi threaded!).
 - Be careful if you are using multiple class loaders; this could defeat the Singleton implementation and result in multiple instances.

Typescript implementation:

```ts
class Singleton {
    private static instance: Singleton;
    private constructor() { }

    public static getInstance(): Singleton {
        if (!Singleton.instance) {
            Singleton.instance = new Singleton();
        }

        return Singleton.instance;
    }

    public someBusinessLogic() {
        // ...
    }
}

function clientCode() {
    const s1 = Singleton.getInstance();
    const s2 = Singleton.getInstance();

    if (s1 === s2) {
        console.log('Singleton works, both variables contain the same instance.');
    } else {
        console.log('Singleton failed, variables contain different instances.');
    }
}

clientCode();
