The Template Method Pattern deﬁnes the skeleton of an algorithm in a method, deferring some steps to sub classes. It lets sub classes redeﬁne certain steps of an algorithm without changing the algorithm’s structure.

**Hooks**
A hook is a method that is declared in the abstract class, but only given an empty or default implementation. This gives sub classes the ability to “hook into” the algorithm at various points, if they wish; a subclass is also free to ignore the hook.

Uses of Hooks:
- Provide a way for a subclass to run or skip an optional part of the algorithm.
- To give the subclass a chance to react to some step in the template method that is about to happen, or just happened.For instance, a hook method like justReOrderedList() allows the subclass to perform some activity (such as re displaying an onscreen representation) after an internal list is reordered. As you’ve seen a hook can also provide a subclass with the ability to make a decision for the abstract class.

**Hollywood Principle**-  "*Don't call us we call you*"

With the Hollywood Principle, we allow low-level components to hook themselves into a system, but the high-level components determine when they are needed, and how.


```ts
abstract class CaffeineBeverageWithHook {
	readonly prepareReceipe = () => {
		this.boilWater();
		this.brew();
		this.pourInCup();
		// conditional execution
		if(this.customerWantsCondiments()) {
			this.addCondiments();
		}
	}
	
	abstract brew():void;
	abstract addCondiments():void;
	
	boilWater() {
		console.log("Water boiling");
	}
	pourInCup() {
		console.log("Pouring into cup");
	}

	// hook method
	customerWantsCondiments() {
		return true;
	}
}

class CoffeeWithHook extends CaffeineBeverageWithHook {
    brew() {
        console.log("Dripping Coffee through ﬁlter");
    }
    addCondiments() {
        console.log("Adding Sugar and Milk");
    }
    customerWantsCondiments() {
        let answer = prompt("Would you like milk and sugar with coffee") ?? '';
        if (answer.toLowerCase().startsWith("y")) {
            return true;
        } else {
        return false;
        }
    }
}

class TeaWithHook extends CaffeineBeverageWithHook {
    brew() {
        console.log("Steeping the tea");
    }
    addCondiments() {
        console.log("Adding lemon");
    }
    customerWantsCondiments() {
        let answer = prompt("Would you like lemon with tea") ?? '';
        if (answer.toLowerCase().startsWith("y")) {
            return true;
        } else {
        return false;
        }
    }
}

const coffeeHook=new CoffeeWithHook();
const teaHook=new TeaWithHook();
coffeeHook.prepareReceipe();
teaHook.prepareReceipe();
```


**Bullet points**

- It gives us an important technique for code reuse.
- The template method’s abstract class may define concrete methods, abstract methods and hooks.
- Abstract methods are implemented by sub classes.
- Hooks are methods that do nothing or default behavior in the abstract class, but may be overridden in the subclass.
- To prevent sub classes from changing the algorithm in the template method, declare the template method as final.
- The Hollywood Principle guides us to put decision-making in high-level modules that can decide how and when to call low level modules.
- The Strategy and Template Method Patterns both encapsulate algorithms, one by inheritance and one by composition.
- The Factory Method is a specialization of Template Method.