Micro services have multiple different small services. Client talks to the API gateway which directly communicates with the services.

Micro services are a hot topic in system design interviews. It is important to know why we use them instead of monolithic systems. The short answer is: Scalability. The detailed one would be:

Advantages:

1) The micro service architecture is easier to reason about/design for a complicated system.

2) They allow new members to train for shorter periods and have less context before touching a system.

3) Deployments are fluid and continuous for each service.

4) They allow decoupling service logic on the basis of business responsibility

5) They are more available as a single service having a bug does not bring down the entire system. This is called a single point of failure.

6) Individual services can be written in different languages.

7) The developer teams can talk to each other through API sheets instead of working on the same repository, which requires conflict resolution.

8) New services can be tested easily and individually. The testing structure is close to unit testing compared to a monolith.

Micro services are at a disadvantage to Monoliths in some cases. Monoliths are favorable when:

1) The technical/developer team is very small

2) The service is simple to think of as a whole.

3) The service requires very high efficiency, where network calls are avoided as much as possible.

4) All developers must have context of all services.